Before we begin talking about channel customization,
let's look at the source medium report and the channels report.
We're back into Google merchandise store demo account.
All Google Analytics sessions that are recorded in the property and that are not
filtered out at the view level are accounted for in the source medium report.
If we navigate to the channels report,
all of the same sessions appear in the channels report.
However, the channels report is designed to provide
a higher level slightly more human-readable classification of our traffic.
How does Google Analytics map the source medium values to the channel values?
Let's consider an example of a click-through from AdWords,
now known as Google Ads or from Bing Ads.
For either of those click-throughs,
if we do have auto tagging enable,
the medium would be recorded as CPC.
That would match the rule for the paid search channel.
In the case of an email click-through,
if we've manually tagged our links or we've
automated campaign tagging in our email program,
the medium should be recorded as email.
In this case, we would match the rule for the email channel.
But how do we know what these rules are?
There is a very important Google Analytics Help doc that we can refer to,
the default channel definitions.
If we search for
Google Analytics default channel definitions and click through on the first result,
we'll see the nine channels that your traffic can match by default.
When we're reviewing these channel definitions,
there are some important considerations that we'll want to keep in mind.
First, is that we can edit a default channel definition as needed.
Also, very importantly you can define your own custom channels as needed.
You do not have to stick with the nine default channels.
Also, critically you can take
the campaign parameters that Patrick discussed in
the last lesson and you can make sure that
your campaign parameters are matching
the default definitions or edited channel definitions or your own custom channels.
Your campaign parameters and your channel definitions are going to work hand in hand.
There are many good candidates for custom channels that you can define.
Paid social, redirects, QR codes,
press releases, SMS marketing,
push notifications in your browser,
push notifications for Mobile App Campaign Tracking,
Click through some email signatures,
click throughs on display campaigns that are either remarketing or prospecting,
RLSA, brand or generic paid search
click-throughs and several different types of YouTube Click-throughs.
In this channels report,
we see paid social broken out as a separate channel.
Paid social is a great candidate for its own channel
because it's really not like organic social click-throughs.
It's really it's own thing.
Let's remember again that we want to control both ends of clean acquisition data.
We're going to define our own channels.
Then, on an ongoing basis,
we're going to control the campaign parameters that feed into those channels.
In the case of paid social campaigns,
we can make sure to use paid dash social as UTM medium.
If we go back to our default channel definitions,
and we see which of these channels UTM underscore medium equals paid social would match,
the answer is it would match none of them,
and that's okay because that means that we have
the opportunity to define our own custom channel.
We're back in our org test account specifically in the test view within the property.
When we're editing the default channel grouping
that will affect what everyone else sees in the view.
So, we don't want to edit
the default channel grouping directly in our main working view right away.
We'll click into Channel Settings, channel grouping.
For right now we're actually not going to click on "New channel grouping."
That seems like the most important call to
action but we're going to click into default channel grouping.
Will click "Define a new channel."
We'll call this channel Paid social.
Our rule will be based on the medium value.
Medium, exactly matches Paid social.
You could let this channel run in your test view for a period of days.
If the paid social channel is populating correctly,
you could create the same channel within your main view.
Here are some of the candidates for custom channels that we saw previously.
In most cases, the channel is going to be defined based on
the medium value that we provide in our campaign parameters.
In one case, the channel will be defined based on medium and source value.
You can define your own channels based on any number of dimensions.
But usually, channels are defined based on medium or medium and source.
As an important consideration,
when you're defining your channels,
make sure to add the more specific channel definitions to the top of the channels list.
If we consider a custom channel definition for email signature that is
based on medium matching email and source matching signature,
we want to always keep in mind which channel is click-through would match first.
If we have the email channel defined before the email signature channel,
that will not give us our desired result because this click-through would satisfy
the email channel definition and it would never
get to the email signature channel definition.
All sessions appear only one time each within the channels report.
Once a definition is satisfied, the matching stops.
So, this is not the scenario that we would want.
What we would want is the more specific channel definition to appear first in the list.
In this case, the email signature channel would be matched.
The matching would stop at that point and
our session would be recorded in the correct channel.